Alluxio, formerly known as Tachyon, is the world’s first memory speed virtual distributed storage system. It unifies data access and bridges computation frameworks and underlying storage systems. Applications only need to connect with Alluxio to access data stored in any underlying storage systems. Additionally, Alluxio’s memory-centric architecture enables data access orders of magnitude faster than existing solutions.

In the big data ecosystem, Alluxio lies between computation frameworks or jobs, such as Apache Spark, Apache MapReduce, Apache HBase, Apache Hive, or Apache Flink, and various kinds of storage systems, such as Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage, OpenStack Swift, GlusterFS, HDFS, MaprFS, Ceph, NFS, and Alibaba OSS. Alluxio brings significant performance improvement to the ecosystem; for example, Baidu uses Alluxio to improve speedup the throughput of their data analytics pipeline 30 times. Barclays makes the impossible possible with Alluxio to accelerate jobs from hours to seconds. Qunar performs real-time data analytics on top of Alluxio. Beyond performance, Alluxio bridges new workloads with data stored in traditional storage systems. Users can run Alluxio using its standalone cluster mode, for example on Amazon EC2, Google Compute Engine, or launch Alluxio with Apache Mesos or Apache Yarn.

Alluxio is Hadoop compatible. Existing data analytics applications, such as Spark and MapReduce programs, can run on top of Alluxio without any code change. The project is open source under Apache License 2.0 and is deployed at many companies. It is one of the fastest growing open source projects. With three years of open source history, Alluxio has attracted more than 500 contributors from over 100 institutions, including Alibaba, Alluxio, Baidu, CMU, Google, IBM, Intel, NJU, Red Hat, UC Berkeley, and Yahoo. The project is the storage layer of the Berkeley Data Analytics Stack (BDAS) and also part of the Fedora distribution. Today, Alluxio is deployed in production by 100s organizations, and runs on clusters that exceed 1,000 nodes.